README.md, before:

# Midnight MCP Server

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/midnight-mcp.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/midnight-mcp)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/midnight-mcp)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/midnight-mcp)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/midnight-mcp)](./LICENSE)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.3-blue?logo=typescript)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![CI](https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

MCP server that gives AI assistants access to Midnight blockchain—search contracts, analyze code, and explore documentation.

## Quick Start

### Claude Desktop

Add to your `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

<details>
<summary><strong>📍 Config file locations</strong></summary>

- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

</details>

### Cursor

Add to Cursor's MCP settings (Settings → MCP → Add Server):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

Or add to `.cursor/mcp.json` in your project:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Windsurf

Add to `~/.codeium/windsurf/mcp_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

---

Restart your editor after adding the config. All features work out of the box—no API keys or setup required.

---

## How It Works

By default, the MCP uses a **hosted API** for semantic search:

- ✅ **Zero configuration** — just install and use
- ✅ **Semantic search** works immediately
- ✅ **No API keys** needed

### Local Mode (Optional)

Run everything locally for privacy or offline use:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "MIDNIGHT_LOCAL": "true",
        "OPENAI_API_KEY": "sk-...",
        "CHROMA_URL": "http://localhost:8000"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Local mode requires ChromaDB (`docker run -d -p 8000:8000 chromadb/chroma`) and an OpenAI API key.

### GitHub Token (Optional)

Add `"GITHUB_TOKEN": "ghp_..."` for higher GitHub API rate limits (60 → 5000 requests/hour).

---

## Features

### Tools (16)

| Tool                              | Description                             |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `midnight-search-compact`         | Search Compact contract code            |
| `midnight-search-typescript`      | Search TypeScript SDK                   |
| `midnight-search-docs`            | Search documentation                    |
| `midnight-analyze-contract`       | Analyze contract structure and security |
| `midnight-explain-circuit`        | Explain circuits in plain language      |
| `midnight-get-file`               | Get files from Midnight repos           |
| `midnight-list-examples`          | List example contracts                  |
| `midnight-get-latest-updates`     | Recent repo changes                     |
| `midnight-get-version-info`       | Get version and release info            |
| `midnight-check-breaking-changes` | Check for breaking changes              |
| `midnight-get-migration-guide`    | Migration guides between versions       |
| `midnight-get-file-at-version`    | Get file at specific version            |
| `midnight-compare-syntax`         | Compare files between versions          |
| `midnight-get-latest-syntax`      | Latest syntax reference                 |
| `midnight-health-check`           | Check server health status              |
| `midnight-get-status`             | Get rate limits and cache stats         |

### Resources (20)

- `midnight://docs/*` — Documentation (Compact reference, SDK API, ZK concepts)
- `midnight://code/*` — Examples, patterns, and templates
- `midnight://schema/*` — AST, transaction, and proof schemas

### Prompts (5)

- `midnight:create-contract` — Create new contracts
- `midnight:review-contract` — Security review
- `midnight:explain-concept` — Learn Midnight concepts
- `midnight:compare-approaches` — Compare implementation approaches
- `midnight:debug-contract` — Debug issues

---

## Developer Setup

For contributors:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp.git
cd midnight-mcp
npm install
npm run build
npm test
```

### Testing with Local API

To test against a local API server instead of production:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start local API
cd api
npm install
npm run dev  # Starts at http://localhost:8787

# Terminal 2: Run MCP with local API
MIDNIGHT_API_URL=http://localhost:8787 npm start
```

### API Backend

The hosted API runs on Cloudflare Workers + Vectorize. See [api/README.md](./api/README.md) for deployment and development instructions.

## License

MIT

## Links

- [Midnight Docs](https://docs.midnight.network)
- [MCP Spec](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)
- [Midnight GitHub](https://github.com/midnightntwrk)

Commit message:

feat: add metrics dashboard + document quality tracking
- Query logging with last 100 queries
- Relevance score tracking (avg + distribution)
- Document coverage by repository
- Quality scoring (high/medium/low)
- HTML dashboard at /dashboard
- JSON API: /v1/stats, /v1/stats/queries
- Added README note about anonymous quality metrics

README.md, after:

# Midnight MCP Server

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/midnight-mcp.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/midnight-mcp)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/midnight-mcp)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/midnight-mcp)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/midnight-mcp)](./LICENSE)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.3-blue?logo=typescript)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![CI](https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

MCP server that gives AI assistants access to Midnight blockchain—search contracts, analyze code, and explore documentation.

## Quick Start

### Claude Desktop

Add to your `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

<details>
<summary><strong>📍 Config file locations</strong></summary>

- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

</details>

### Cursor

Add to Cursor's MCP settings (Settings → MCP → Add Server):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

Or add to `.cursor/mcp.json` in your project:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Windsurf

Add to `~/.codeium/windsurf/mcp_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
```

---

Restart your editor after adding the config. All features work out of the box—no API keys or setup required.

---

## How It Works

By default, the MCP uses a **hosted API** for semantic search:

- ✅ **Zero configuration** — just install and use
- ✅ **Semantic search** works immediately
- ✅ **No API keys** needed

> **📊 Quality Metrics**: To ensure the MCP stays accurate as Midnight's codebase evolves rapidly, we collect anonymous usage metrics (query counts, relevance scores) to monitor search quality. No query content or personal data is stored. This helps us identify when re-indexing is needed and improve results over time.

### Local Mode (Optional)

Run everything locally for privacy or offline use:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "midnight": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "midnight-mcp"],
      "env": {
        "MIDNIGHT_LOCAL": "true",
        "OPENAI_API_KEY": "sk-...",
        "CHROMA_URL": "http://localhost:8000"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Local mode requires ChromaDB (`docker run -d -p 8000:8000 chromadb/chroma`) and an OpenAI API key.

### GitHub Token (Optional)

Add `"GITHUB_TOKEN": "ghp_..."` for higher GitHub API rate limits (60 → 5000 requests/hour).

---

## Features

### Tools (16)

| Tool                              | Description                             |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `midnight-search-compact`         | Search Compact contract code            |
| `midnight-search-typescript`      | Search TypeScript SDK                   |
| `midnight-search-docs`            | Search documentation                    |
| `midnight-analyze-contract`       | Analyze contract structure and security |
| `midnight-explain-circuit`        | Explain circuits in plain language      |
| `midnight-get-file`               | Get files from Midnight repos           |
| `midnight-list-examples`          | List example contracts                  |
| `midnight-get-latest-updates`     | Recent repo changes                     |
| `midnight-get-version-info`       | Get version and release info            |
| `midnight-check-breaking-changes` | Check for breaking changes              |
| `midnight-get-migration-guide`    | Migration guides between versions       |
| `midnight-get-file-at-version`    | Get file at specific version            |
| `midnight-compare-syntax`         | Compare files between versions          |
| `midnight-get-latest-syntax`      | Latest syntax reference                 |
| `midnight-health-check`           | Check server health status              |
| `midnight-get-status`             | Get rate limits and cache stats         |

### Resources (20)

- `midnight://docs/*` — Documentation (Compact reference, SDK API, ZK concepts)
- `midnight://code/*` — Examples, patterns, and templates
- `midnight://schema/*` — AST, transaction, and proof schemas

### Prompts (5)

- `midnight:create-contract` — Create new contracts
- `midnight:review-contract` — Security review
- `midnight:explain-concept` — Learn Midnight concepts
- `midnight:compare-approaches` — Compare implementation approaches
- `midnight:debug-contract` — Debug issues

---

## Developer Setup

For contributors:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp.git
cd midnight-mcp
npm install
npm run build
npm test
```

### Testing with Local API

To test against a local API server instead of production:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start local API
cd api
npm install
npm run dev  # Starts at http://localhost:8787

# Terminal 2: Run MCP with local API
MIDNIGHT_API_URL=http://localhost:8787 npm start
```

### API Backend

The hosted API runs on Cloudflare Workers + Vectorize. See [api/README.md](./api/README.md) for deployment and development instructions.

## License

MIT

## Links

- [Midnight Docs](https://docs.midnight.network)
- [MCP Spec](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)
- [Midnight GitHub](https://github.com/midnightntwrk)
